README.md, before:

lomod
==================
Loading modules from not only 'node_modules' but also 'lib' folders, which usually contains project's local modules.


Install
----------

    npm install lomod


Usage
-----------

    project/
      + common/
      |  + local_modules/
      |     + common-util.js
      + app/
         + local_modules/
         |  + app-util.js
         + submod/
         |  + local_modules/
         |  |  + libdir/
         |  |  |  + dir-util.js
         |  |  + sub-util.js
         |  + test.js
         + package.json


**app/submod/test.js**

```js
var lomod = require('lomod');

// use as a replacement of original require
var fs = lomod('fs');

var sutil = lomod('sub-util');
var dutil = lomod('libdir/dir-util');
var autil = lomod('app-util');
var cutil = lomod('common-util');
```

**app/package.json**

```js
{
  "name": "proj-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "localDependencies": [
    "../common"
  ]
}
```


Looking-up Modules
------------------
Any module identifier passed to lomod() will be tried on original require first.

If this failed, and the module identifier does not begin with '/', '../', or './', then lomod starts at the current directory, adds **/LOCAL_MODULE_DIRNAME**, and attempts to load the module from that location. (LOCAL_MODULE_DIRNAME could be 'local_modules' or 'lib' for default)

If it is not found there, then it moves to the parent directory, and so on, until the root of the tree is reached, or a package.json with property **localDependencies** was found (check the next chapter).

For example, if the file at '/home/ry/projects/foo.js' called lomod('bar.js'), then lomod would look in the following locations, in this order:

    try to require('bar.js')
    /home/ry/projects/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/projects/lib/bar.js
    /home/ry/lib/bar.js
    /home/lib/bar.js
    /lib/bar.js

This is almost same with the original require, just consider it as you got two extra module directories beside 'node_modules'.


Local Module Dirs
-----------------
Lomod find local modules in directories named 'local_modules' or 'lib' by default. You can customize these names if they didn't fit your need:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('lib', 'mylib')

Then lomod will find local modules in directories named 'lib' or 'mylib', the default directories 'local_modules' will be ignored.

You can also use empty string as dirname:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('')
    var tools = lomod('local_modules/tools')

is equals to:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('local_modules')
    var tools = lomod('tools')


Local Dependencies
------------------
A "localDependencies" property with string array value in **package.json** stop the recusive moving to parent directory. Instead of it, lomod start looking up from each path in this array.

For example, if the file at '/home/ry/projects/foo.js' called lomod('bar.js'), and the file at '/home/ry/package.json' contains localDependencies  assigned <code>['/share', '/usr/share']</code>, then lomod would look in the following locations, in this order:

    try to require('bar.js')
    /home/ry/projects/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/local_modules/bar.js    (go to localDependencies)
    /share/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js
    /usr/share/local_modules/bar.js
    /usr/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js            (has been scaned, ignore)
    /home/ry/projects/lib/bar.js     (continue with local module dir "lib")
    ....

Lomod ignored '/home/lib/bar.js' in this example. You can simply prevent it by append '..' to the localDependencies array.


Support Other File Formats
--------------------------
Any format supported by original require will be inherited to lomod.

    project/
      + node_modules/
      |  + res.yaml
      + lib/
      |  + lores.yaml
      + test.js

**test.js**
```js
require('require-yaml');

var res = require('res');
var lomod = require('lomod'),
    lores = lomod('lores');
```

### some format modules by [olalonde](https://www.npmjs.com/~olalonde)

> <span class="icon icon-alert"></span> These modules support extra formats by adding handlers to [require.extensions](http://nodejs.org/api/all.html#all_require_extensions) which is a **deprecated** feature in node's module system. Since the module system is locked, this feature will probably never go away but may have subtle bugs. Use on your own risk.

- [better-require](https://www.npmjs.com/package/better-require) (a multiple formats bundle)
- [require-yaml](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-yaml)
- [require-csv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-csv)
- [require-xml](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-xml)
- [require-ini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-ini)

Commit message:

* fix path bug on original require * upgrade cache + support starting path for requireLocal and resolveLocal

README.md, after:

lomod
==================
Loading modules from not only 'node_modules' but also 'lib' folders, which usually contains project's local modules.


Install
----------

    npm install lomod


Usage
-----------

    project/
      + common/
      |  + local_modules/
      |     + common-util.js
      + app/
         + local_modules/
         |  + app-util.js
         + submod/
         |  + local_modules/
         |  |  + libdir/
         |  |  |  + dir-util.js
         |  |  + sub-util.js
         |  + test.js
         + package.json


**app/submod/test.js**

```js
var lomod = require('lomod');

// use as a replacement of original require
var fs = lomod('fs');

var sutil = lomod('sub-util');
var dutil = lomod('libdir/dir-util');
var autil = lomod('app-util');
var cutil = lomod('common-util');
```

**app/package.json**

```js
{
  "name": "proj-app",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "localDependencies": [
    "../common"
  ]
}
```


Looking-up Modules
------------------
Any module identifier passed to lomod() will be tried on original require first.

If this failed, and the module identifier does not begin with '/', '../', or './', then lomod starts at the current directory, adds **/LOCAL_MODULE_DIRNAME**, and attempts to load the module from that location. (LOCAL_MODULE_DIRNAME could be 'local_modules' or 'lib' for default)

If it is not found there, then it moves to the parent directory, and so on, until the root of the tree is reached, or a package.json with property **localDependencies** was found (check the next chapter).

For example, if the file at '/home/ry/projects/foo.js' called lomod('bar.js'), then lomod would look in the following locations, in this order:

    try to require('bar.js')
    /home/ry/projects/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/projects/lib/bar.js
    /home/ry/lib/bar.js
    /home/lib/bar.js
    /lib/bar.js

This is almost same with the original require, just consider it as you got two extra module directories beside 'node_modules'.


Local Module Dirs
-----------------
Lomod find local modules in directories named 'local_modules' or 'lib' by default. You can customize these names if they didn't fit your need:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('lib', 'mylib')

Then lomod will find local modules in directories named 'lib' or 'mylib', the default directories 'local_modules' will be ignored.

You can also use empty string as dirname:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('')
    var tools = lomod('local_modules/tools')

is equals to:

    var lomod = require('lomod').in('local_modules')
    var tools = lomod('tools')


Local Dependencies
------------------
A "localDependencies" property with string array value in **package.json** stop the recusive moving to parent directory. Instead of it, lomod start looking up from each path in this array.

For example, if the file at '/home/ry/projects/foo.js' called lomod('bar.js'), and the file at '/home/ry/package.json' contains localDependencies  assigned <code>['/share', '/usr/share']</code>, then lomod would look in the following locations, in this order:

    try to require('bar.js')
    /home/ry/projects/local_modules/bar.js
    /home/ry/local_modules/bar.js    (go to localDependencies)
    /share/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js
    /usr/share/local_modules/bar.js
    /usr/local_modules/bar.js
    /local_modules/bar.js            (has been scaned, ignore)
    /home/ry/projects/lib/bar.js     (continue with local module dir "lib")
    ....

Lomod ignored '/home/lib/bar.js' in this example. You can simply prevent it by append '..' to the localDependencies array.


Ignore Original Require
------------------------

Lomod will try to load module by original require first.
You can ignore this by use `lomod.requireLocal` and `lomod.resolveLocal`

    project/
      + local_modules/
      |  + util.js
      + main.js

**main.js**

```js
var sys_util = require('util');
var my_util  = lomod.requireLocal('util');
var my_util2 = require(lomod.resolveLocal('util'));
```

You can also specify a starting directory.
Original require will also be ignored in this situation:

```js
var util = lomod('util', '/opt/my_lib/');
// will be found in /opt/my_lib/local_modules/util
```


Support Other File Formats
--------------------------
Any format supported by original require will be inherited to lomod.

    project/
      + node_modules/
      |  + res.yaml
      + local_modules/
      |  + lores.yaml
      + test.js

**test.js**
```js
require('require-yaml');

var res = require('res');
var lomod = require('lomod'),
    lores = lomod('lores');
```

### some format modules by [olalonde](https://www.npmjs.com/~olalonde)

> <span class="icon icon-alert"></span> These modules support extra formats by adding handlers to [require.extensions](http://nodejs.org/api/all.html#all_require_extensions) which is a **deprecated** feature in node's module system. Since the module system is locked, this feature will probably never go away but may have subtle bugs. Use on your own risk.

- [better-require](https://www.npmjs.com/package/better-require) (a multiple formats bundle)
- [require-yaml](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-yaml)
- [require-csv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-csv)
- [require-xml](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-xml)
- [require-ini](https://www.npmjs.com/package/require-ini)
